what's everybody my name is Brendan
Hufford welcome to 100 days of SEO
enjoying this beautiful beautiful
weather outside but in a second here
we're gonna go hop into my laptop here
inside we're gonna talk about link
building for beginners let's get it hey
what's up everybody Brendan hover here
we are in my computer today we're
talking link building for beginners and
my goal in the next couple minutes is to
take you from sad link building pug it's
a happy link building pug in the next
few minutes you're gonna learn stories
about link building past link building
present in link building future I'm so
excited feel free to take notes I'm
looking forward to hearing what you
learn in the comments below also I've
got something special for you so if you
watch until the end of this video I'm
gonna make a pretty special offer to
help you for free with your website you
just have to watch all the way to the
end now if you're new here my name is
Brendon Hufford I'm the founder of SEO
for the rest of us in 100 days of SEO
I'm also the SEO director an amazing
agency called click studios where we
help companies ranging from just you
know local Chicago kind of famous
companies to your huge global hundred
million dollar-plus venture-backed
startups I'm also a former teacher for
ten years believe it or not I was a
classroom teacher and even an assistant
principal and that it was during that
time that I really started to learn SEO
let's do a quick review SEO ranking
factors what are they first it's
primarily your website Google loves a
fast old popular website it's your
content it's your Authority and then
it's everything else these are really
the things that matter the most do I
have a really good website do I have
amazing content do I solve for search
intent and is it the right quality and
length do I have enough Authority drive
enough links from other websites and to
my content and things like that then
there's everything else we're gonna
focus mostly on those first three but
primarily we're talking about Authority
and we're talking about how do I make
this more relevant this is the I am SEO
framework there's a framework I made up
to help explain both to clients but also
to students and people watching these
videos now what really matters how do I
get success in SEO the I am framework
answers all that matching the intent
building the right asset making sure
that our medium is on point
by medium I mean our website and then
making it more relevant and that's what
we're talking about today link building
for beginner so I get this question all
the time
Brendon do link still matter now you're
watching this video so you probably
already know that links matter but we
can also prove that each refs did a
really cool study where they compared
on-page factors to backlink factors what
they found is that what correlated the
most with rank was not using the keyword
in a title or an h1 or in a Meta
Description the on-page stuff correlates
less than 5 percent whereas getting
links to your content and links to your
website correlate like anywhere from 22
to 40 percent it's a much higher
correlation link building is what is
going to move the needle the most for
you when it comes to SEO given you
already have stellar content so let's
talk about what link building used to
look like in the past this is an article
that I read back in 2010 you can see I
left a comment on it in 2012 just saying
I referred back to this over and over
and this is the backlinking strategy
that works from smart passive income now
if you are an expert SEO you'll
recognize this as tiered link building
but basically if you've never heard of
that before what you do is you have your
website in the middle you build a bunch
of other free properties you know web
2.0 is you build other blogs and things
like that you point those and then you
hammer those secondary properties what
is called the anchor layer with just
garbage backlinks then you hammer them
with garbage backlinks because they can
handle it then that passes all the way
through them and it filters out the bad
kind of the bad link juju and it gives
your main website all of the link power
from those and it works it still works a
lot of SEO is use this tactic really
effectively but it's hard when you're
not a full team and you don't have
budget and you're not doing it at scale
and it also is just a really good way to
screw it up and get a Google penalty I'm
pretty sure that I've had sites of my
own penalized that's why I'm always
experimenting we used to do it with
things like services like backlink genie
article marketing robot build my rank
the best spinner we used to spin
articles turning every article into like
a mad lib kind of thing so we could make
our content seem unique on a
website but is really the same spun
article is awful it was awful and as
much as I'm making fun of it gotta admit
I was a customer
I was definitely a customer I definitely
used there's my receipt to the Best
Spinner like I did all of those things
and now let's talk about what link
building looks like today
after watching this you might have heard
of some of these tactics they say to
send emails to do outreach to get links
and they say hey use this script hi
Brendan I was looking for content on SEO
today when I stumbled on your article
good stuff I especially enjoyed and then
this is how they tell you to personalize
it here's the problem it doesn't work
and let me help you understand why I've
sent these emails this isn't my actual
inbox from 2017 I sent hundreds of
emails hundreds of them just writing I'm
writing and right and following the
script thinking I was doing it right I
kept track of all of them I followed up
all right I sent the first email you
know in December I got to send the next
one in January kept track of everything
broken link building resource link
building sending the scripts and what
did I have to show for it two links I
got two links from all of this effort
and I was just like I can't do that
anymore like this isn't gonna work I
can't send out 300 emails to get two
links especially if I have clients that
need links I'm not gonna be able to
build these at scale this doesn't work
there has to be something else because
this like we get this here look at look
at this here's an email my team got it
click hello there amazing job on your
page you have on your site really great
off as soon as I see great stuff I'm
like you're using you're using the
script you're scripting me and I don't
respect that and that's a really that's
really problematic here's another one
here's another script that the quote
unquote yeah I'm using air quotes that
you can't see but here's one another one
the quote unquote gurus recommend you
know my name I was googling around for
if I if I you use the phrase googling
around I know you're scripting me which
means you don't really care you're
trying to get the minimum level of
personalization you don't really want to
connect with me as a human you don't
really care about me you just want that
link and if all you want is a link if
all you want is something transactional
like we're probably not going to be
friends
you know here's that here's a version of
this browsing the web I came across one
of your posts and felt compelled to
reach out the this one isn't even this
one isn't even personalized it's just
they didn't even use that he's just it's
so bad also the one click unsubscribe
like I didn't subscribe to your thing I
don't know what you're talking about so
here's what I want to present to you
today link building for beginners this
is the future of link building now don't
forget I've got something really special
for you if you watch until the end of
this video I'm gonna make a pretty
special offer to help you for free with
some link building for your website so
make sure you watch until the end for
that back to the future of link building
there are there's really two parts the
first part is you have to make something
epic you have to make something really
great you have to create content that
attracts links like survey results rare
interviews a superpower list post an
epic guide you know share some journey
that is like a totally unique story I
wrote an article for a growth lab about
starting my e-commerce company and how I
figured out importing and exporting and
using le Baba all by myself and all
these just something that nobody else
could have written about or do like an
exhaustive comparison between different
options like there's these are this is
the type of content that is going to
attract links you have to create this
type of content we cannot talk about
links until you have something worth
linking to now is the second part you're
gonna reach out you're gonna do outreach
emails but I've just poop I've spent a
couple minutes pooh-poohing on using the
scripts so here's the thing a lot of
times people think that a simple email
is not gonna simply you know it's not
gonna solve anything because the
hilarious set of tweets between Mike
Vardy and Austin Kleon where Mike Vardy
was like oh I really want to get Austin
Kleon on my podcast blah blah blah and
Austin Kleon nationally responded to him
was like I don't remember seeing an
email from you and Mike party's like oh
it didn't even dawn on me to just email
you you know an email will get it done
and this works for all levels you're
like alright and I'm just starting out
if I hurry male people and share my
stuff with them it's not gonna work it
does it really does so there's an email
I sent Pat Flynn in 2011 and I was on
episode 49 of his podcast if you're
familiar with smart passive income
podcast I was on episode 49 why cuz I
just emailed him
and told them all the results that I'd
gotten from all of his contacts and then
a little bit later like I emailed Ryan
holiday I tweeted Ryan holiday and I was
like hey man I'm doing a DonorsChoose
project to get a classroom set of your
books and he told me to email him and I
did I sent him an email I set up this
thing on DonorsChoose we got a classroom
set of obstacles the way it's one of the
most important books of my entire life I
have tattoos of it some of the suffer
MIT from on the inside of my forearms
like you know it was really impactful
for me so then Ryan shared it and it got
funded within you know a couple minutes
it was just that it was all good and he
funded it himself he like put his own
money towards it why because I was
willing to reach out because I was
willing to tweet him cuz I was willing
to email Pat Flynn now here's how you
win first thing when you're doing an
outreach email you have to have a good
reason for reaching out you have to have
a good reason and here's how you get a
good reason for for reaching out the
first thing is remember your why what do
you want now we do not just want a link
link building for beginners here today
we do not want just a link we want a
relationship I want hundreds of links
from this person I don't want just one
when I start out asking for one it makes
the relationship transactional and it
never expands from there my Y has to be
that I have something worth sharing the
segment's remember they're why what do
they want I'm asking for you know to
guest post on their website or do
something like that but what do they
want what do they care about they want
probably two things they want results
for their audience and they want to make
money so we they have to know that my
content will help them do both of those
things right if they have a bunch of
affiliate links on their website say hey
I'd love to write an article for you and
I think it would be perfect cuz you know
I know you these are your affiliates
that you promote and you can put your
affiliate links in this article or hey
you know I'm writing about this here's
other results people have gotten from my
content before or people that are in my
audience have gotten these results I'd
love to get those results for your
audience to like that's how we have to
approach this you have to focus on there
why then you have to do your research
I'll never forget Corbett Barr told me
one time when I was interviewing for a
podcast I brought up like something from
he had said in an obscure interview he
said something about when he was in
college and I brought it
up in our interview and he's like wow he
like took a strong pause and he was just
like whoa you really did your homework
here and that really impresses people
when you're not just using that garbage
script and you're willing to do your
homework when you email them and finally
don't give up can't just email once you
can't just tweet once you have to be
persistent you have to understand you
know there may be a reason they're not
replying they could be busy they could
be or could just be your your you know
you're not focusing enough on their why
your email is not compelling enough but
don't give up
definitely don't give up these are some
emails between Sean bland and I when I
was writing that article that I
mentioned for growth lab you know the
first thing we started talking the first
time we started talking was in March
2017 and if you just fast-forward to the
bottom there the article didn't go live
until March 2018 it took over a year of
editing and going back and forth and now
is it worth it yes because it's an
anchor piece of content for me that
exists on a wonderful website I get to
work with a great editor and also I get
to make friends with Sean
Sean now works at invision I work at a
web design and marketing agency he works
at one of the biggest like web design
prototyping tools in the country and
he's the editor there like I'm so glad
like we have a relationship like I could
maybe reach out to him and it wouldn't
be weird for me to be like hey I'd love
to write for envision because he knows
me because I'm I'm here for
relationships not just getting links and
that's that's kind of my point here you
have to focus on going friends first now
here's just a really quick thing I use
the example of smart passive income all
the time because I'm a really big fan of
Pat Flynn but if you look at the
websites that he links to the most Chris
Ducker Derek Halpern social triggers Amy
Porterfield darren rouses problogger
Michael Hyatt
ramit sethi like Caleb Wojcik John Lee
Dumas these are look at that he's linked
about a hundred and twenty-five times to
criss doctor calm why did Chris asked
him for links no Chris is just like one
of his best friends so like this is
actually a list the websites Pat links
to the most aren't just his friends and
that's my point
you have to focus on making friends
first if you're gonna do link building
as a beginner focus on making friends
reach out to people that are at your
level maybe a little bit above and just
making great network of friends they're
gonna get people that are publishing
content constantly the
want to link to stuff they're gonna link
to your stuff why not cuz you asked them
for a link but because you're friends
now if you want to put this link
building into the whole picture you like
Brendan you told me to make up a Content
I don't really know what that means
I would love maybe more of a formula for
doing outreach and doing some link
building join the 1 ranking away
challenge people are absolutely loving
it you can check out at 100 days of
seo.com slash subscribe also check out
pod reach or com that's who helps me
with my blog post turning all of my
videos and podcast episodes into blog
posts are over at 100 days of SEO com
finally I told you I had something
amazing for you here at the end tell me
in the comments below what website are
you working on right now let me know and
I'll give the first ten people that
comment with their website three link
building opportunities I'll explain
exactly here's three places I think you
should get links here's how I think you
can get them this is consulting that you
can't even really buy from me in this
small of a package it would take a large
super large engagement for me to give
people feedback like this and I'm gonna
give it to the first ten people that
comment below with their website I'll
give you three solid link building
opportunities and if you're watching
this video later and you're like well
ten people have already commented I
would recommend leave your site below
anyways I might still reply but also
check out and see what my replies to
them or you're gonna learn so much on to
see like how I reply to them and what
they're working on I've been running
hovering over get to work hard be nice
to go and don't get too lost trying to
create something that mattered
[Music]